For several seconds, Langdon stared in wonder at the photograph of Sauniere's postscript. P.S. 
Find Robert Langdon. He felt as if the floor were tilting beneath his feet. Sauniere left a postscript 
with my name on it? In his wildest dreams, Langdon could not fathom why. 



"Now do you understand," Sophie said, her eyes urgent, "why Fache ordered you here tonight, and 
why you are his primary suspect?" 

The only thing Langdon understood at the moment was why Fache had looked so smug when 
Langdon suggested Sauniere would have accused his killer by name. 

Find Robert Langdon. 

"Why would Sauniere write this?" Langdon demanded, his confusion now giving way to anger. 
"Why would I want to kill Jacques Sauniere?" 

"Fache has yet to uncover a motive, but he has been recording his entire conversation with you 
tonight in hopes you might reveal one." 

Langdon opened his mouth, but still no words came. 

"He's fitted with a miniature microphone," Sophie explained. "It's connected to a transmitter in his 
pocket that radios the signal back to the command post." 

"This is impossible," Langdon stammered. "I have an alibi. I went directly back to my hotel after 
my lecture. You can ask the hotel desk." 

"Fache already did. His report shows you retrieving your room key from the concierge at about ten- 
thirty. Unfortunately, the time of the murder was closer to eleven. You easily could have left your 
hotel room unseen." 

"This is insanity! Fache has no evidence!" 

Sophie's eyes widened as if to say: No evidence? "Mr. Langdon, your name is written on the floor 
beside the body, and Sauniere's date book says you were with him at approximately the time of the 
murder." She paused. "Fache has more than enough evidence to take you into custody for 
questioning." 

Langdon suddenly sensed that he needed a lawyer. "I didn't do this." 

Sophie sighed. "This is not American television, Mr. Langdon. In France, the laws protect the 
police, not criminals. Unfortunately, in this case, there is also the media consideration. Jacques 
Sauniere was a very prominent and well-loved figure in Paris, and his murder will be news in the 
morning. Fache will be under immediate pressure to make a statement, and he looks a lot better 
having a suspect in custody already. Whether or not you are guilty, you most certainly will be held 
by DCPJ until they can figure out what really happened." 

Langdon felt like a caged animal. "Why are you telling me all this?" 



"Because, Mr. Langdon, I believe you are innocent." Sophie looked away for a moment and then 
back into his eyes. "And also because it is partially my fault that you're in trouble." 

"I'm sorry? It's your fault Sauniere is trying to frame me?" 

"Sauniere wasn't trying to frame you. It was a mistake. That message on the floor was meant for 
me." 

Langdon needed a minute to process that one. "I beg your pardon?" 

"That message wasn't for the police. He wrote it for me. I think he was forced to do everything in 
such a hurry that he just didn't realize how it would look to the police." She paused. "The numbered 
code is meaningless. Sauniere wrote it to make sure the investigation included cryptographers, 
ensuring that / would know as soon as possible what had happened to him." 

Langdon felt himself losing touch fast. Whether or not Sophie Neveu had lost her mind was at this 
point up for grabs, but at least Langdon now understood why she was trying to help him. P.S. Find 
Robert Langdon. She apparently believed the curator had left her a cryptic postscript telling her to 
find Langdon. "But why do you think his message was for you?" 

"The Vitruvian Man, " she said flatly. "That particular sketch has always been my favorite Da Vinci 
work. Tonight he used it to catch my attention." 

"Hold on. You're saying the curator knew your favorite piece of art?" She nodded. "I'm sorry. This 
is all coming out of order. Jacques Sauniere and I..." 

Sophie's voice caught, and Langdon heard a sudden melancholy there, a painful past, simmering 
just below the surface. Sophie and Jacques Sauniere apparently had some kind of special 
relationship. Langdon studied the beautiful young woman before him, well aware that aging men in 
France often took young mistresses. Even so, Sophie Neveu as a "kept woman" somehow didn't 
seem to fit. 

"We had a falling-out ten years ago," Sophie said, her voice a whisper now. "We've barely spoken 
since. Tonight, when Crypto got the call that he had been murdered, and I saw the images of his 
body and text on the floor, I realized he was trying to send me a message." 

"Because of The Vitruvian Man?" 

"Yes. And the letters P.S." 

"PostScript?" 



She shook her head. "P.S. are my initials." 

"But your name is Sophie Neveu." 

She looked away. "P.S. is the nickname he called me when I lived with him." She blushed. "It 
stood for Princesse Sophie " 

Langdon had no response. 

"Silly, I know," she said. "But it was years ago. When I was a little girl." 

"You knew him when you were a little girl?" 

"Quite well," she said, her eyes welling now with emotion. "Jacques Sauniere was my 
grandfather."