Sir Leigh Teabing felt rueful as he gazed out over the barrel of his Medusa revolver at Robert 
Langdon and Sophie Neveu. "My friends," he said, "since the moment you walked into my home 
last night, I have done everything in my power to keep you out of harm's way. But your persistence 
has now put me in a difficult position." 

He could see the expressions of shock and betrayal on Sophie's and Langdon's faces, and yet he 
was confident that soon they would both understand the chain of events that had guided the three of 
them to this unlikely crossroads. 

There is so much I have to tell you both... so much you do not yet understand. 

"Please believe," Teabing said, "I never had any intention of your being involved. You came to my 
home. You came searching for me. " 

"Leigh?" Langdon finally managed. "What the hell are you doing? We thought you were in trouble. 
We came here to help you!" 

"As I trusted you would," he said. "We have much to discuss." 

Langdon and Sophie seemed unable to tear their stunned gazes from the revolver aimed at them. 

"It is simply to ensure your full attention," Teabing said. "If I had wanted to harm you, you would 
be dead by now. When you walked into my home last night, I risked everything to spare your lives. 
I am a man of honor, and I vowed in my deepest conscience only to sacrifice those who had 
betrayed the Sangreal." 

"What are you talking about?" Langdon said. "Betrayed the Sangreal?" 

"I discovered a terrible truth," Teabing said, sighing. "I learned why the Sangreal documents were 



never revealed to the world. I learned that the Priory had decided not to release the truth after all. 
That's why the millennium passed without any revelation, why nothing happened as we entered the 
End of Days." 

Langdon drew a breath, about to protest. 

"The Priory," Teabing continued, "was given a sacred charge to share the truth. To release the 
Sangreal documents when the End of Days arrived. For centuries, men like Da Vinci, Botticelli, 
and Newton risked everything to protect the documents and carry out that charge. And now, at the 
ultimate moment of truth, Jacques Sauniere changed his mind. The man honored with the greatest 
responsibility in Christian history eschewed his duty. He decided the time was not right." Teabing 
turned to Sophie. "He failed the Grail. He failed the Priory. And he failed the memory of all the 
generations that had worked to make that moment possible." 

"You?" Sophie declared, glancing up now, her green eyes boring into him with rage and 
realization. "You are the one responsible for my grandfather's murder?" 

Teabing scoffed. "Your grandfather and his senechaux were traitors to the Grail." 

Sophie felt a fury rising from deep within. He's lying! 

Teabing's voice was relentless. "Your grandfather sold out to the Church. It is obvious they 
pressured him to keep the truth quiet." 

Sophie shook her head. "The Church had no influence on my grandfather!" 

Teabing laughed coldly. "My dear, the Church has two thousand years of experience pressuring 
those who threaten to unveil its lies. Since the days of Constantine, the Church has successfully 
hidden the truth about Mary Magdalene and Jesus. We should not be surprised that now, once 
again, they have found a way to keep the world in the dark. The Church may no longer employ 
crusaders to slaughter non-believers, but their influence is no less persuasive. No less insidious." 
He paused, as if to punctuate his next point. "Miss Neveu, for some time now your grandfather has 
wanted to tell you the truth about your family." 

Sophie was stunned. "How could you know that?" 

"My methods are immaterial. The important thing for you to grasp right now is this." He took a 
deep breath. "The deaths of your mother, father, grandmother, and brother were not accidental." 

The words sent Sophie's emotions reeling. She opened her mouth to speak but was unable. 

Langdon shook his head. "What are you saying?" 



"Robert, it explains everything. All the pieces fit. History repeats itself. The Church has a 
precedent of murder when it comes to silencing the Sangreal. With the End of Days imminent, 
killing the Grand Master's loved ones sent a very clear message. Be quiet, or you and Sophie are 
next." 

"It was a car accident," Sophie stammered, feeling the childhood pain welling inside her. "An 
accident!" 

"Bedtime stories to protect your innocence," Teabing said. "Consider that only two family 
members went untouched — the Priory's Grand Master and his lone granddaughter — the perfect pair 
to provide the Church with control over the brotherhood. I can only imagine the terror the Church 
wielded over your grandfather these past years, threatening to kill you if he dared release the 
Sangreal secret, threatening to finish the job they started unless Sauniere influenced the Priory to 
reconsider its ancient vow." 

"Leigh," Langdon argued, now visibly riled, "certainly you have no proof that the Church had 
anything to do with those deaths, or that it influenced the Priory's decision to remain silent." 

"Proof?" Teabing fired back. "You want proof the Priory was influenced? The new millennium has 
arrived, and yet the world remains ignorant! Is that not proof enough?" 

In the echoes of Teabing's words, Sophie heard another voice speaking. Sophie, I must tell you the 
truth about your family. She realized she was trembling. Could this possibly be that truth her 
grandfather had wanted to tell her? That her family had been murdered? What did she truly know 
about the crash that took her family? Only sketchy details. Even the stories in the newspaper had 
been vague. An accident? Bedtime stories? Sophie flashed suddenly on her grandfather's 
overprotectiveness, how he never liked to leave her alone when she was young. Even when Sophie 
was grown and away at university, she had the sense her grandfather was watching over. She 
wondered if there had been Priory members in the shadows throughout her entire life, looking after 
her. 

"You suspected he was being manipulated," Langdon said, glaring with disbelief at Teabing. "So 
you murdered him?" 

"I did not pull the trigger," Teabing said. "Sauniere was dead years ago, when the Church stole his 
family from him. He was compromised. Now he is free of that pain, released from the shame 
caused by his inability to carry out his sacred duty. Consider the alternative. Something had to be 
done. Shall the world be ignorant forever? Shall the Church be allowed to cement its lies into our 
history books for all eternity? Shall the Church be permitted to influence indefinitely with murder 
and extortion? No, something needed to be done! And now we are poised to carry out Sauniere's 
legacy and right a terrible wrong." He paused. "The three of us. Together." 

Sophie felt only incredulity. "How could you possibly believe that we would help you?" 



"Because, my dear, you are the reason the Priory failed to release the documents. Your 
grandfather's love for you prevented him from challenging the Church. His fear of reprisal against 
his only remaining family crippled him. He never had a chance to explain the truth because you 
rejected him, tying his hands, making him wait. Now you owe the world the truth. You owe it to 
the memory of your grandfather." 



Robert Langdon had given up trying to get his bearings. Despite the torrent of questions running 
through his mind, he knew only one thing mattered now — getting Sophie out of here alive. All the 
guilt Langdon had mistakenly felt earlier for involving Teabing had now been transferred to 
Sophie. 

/ took her to Chateau Villette. I am responsible. 

Langdon could not fathom that Leigh Teabing would be capable of killing them in cold blood here 
in the Chapter House, and yet Teabing certainly had been involved in killing others during his 
misguided quest. Langdon had the uneasy feeling that gunshots in this secluded, thick-walled 
chamber would go unheard, especially in this rain. And Leigh just admitted his guilt to us. 

Langdon glanced at Sophie, who looked shaken. The Church murdered Sophie 's family to silence 
the Priory? Langdon felt certain the modern Church did not murder people. There had to be some 
other explanation. 

"Let Sophie leave," Langdon declared, staring at Leigh. "You and I should discuss this alone." 

Teabing gave an unnatural laugh. "I'm afraid that is one show of faith I cannot afford. I can, 
however, offer you this. " He propped himself fully on his crutches, gracelessly keeping the gun 
aimed at Sophie, and removed the keystone from his pocket. He swayed a bit as he held it out for 
Langdon. "A token of trust, Robert." 

Robert felt wary and didn't move. Leigh is giving the keystone back to us? 

"Take it," Teabing said, thrusting it awkwardly toward Langdon. 

Langdon could imagine only one reason Teabing would give it back. "You opened it already. You 
removed the map." 

Teabing was shaking his head. "Robert, if I had solved the keystone, I would have disappeared to 
find the Grail myself and kept you uninvolved. No, I do not know the answer. And I can admit that 
freely. A true knight learns humility in the face of the Grail. He learns to obey the signs placed 
before him. When I saw you enter the abbey, I understood. You were here for a reason. To help. I 
am not looking for singular glory here. I serve a far greater master than my own pride. The Truth. 



Mankind deserves to know that truth. The Grail found us all, and now she is begging to be 
revealed. We must work together." 

Despite Teabing's pleas for cooperation and trust, his gun remained trained on Sophie as Langdon 
stepped forward and accepted the cold marble cylinder. The vinegar inside gurgled as Langdon 
grasped it and stepped backward. The dials were still in random order, and the cryptex remained 
locked. 

Langdon eyed Teabing. "How do you know I won't smash it right now?" 

Teabing's laugh was an eerie chortle. "I should have realized your threat to break it in the Temple 
Church was an empty one. Robert Langdon would never break the keystone. You are an historian, 
Robert. You are holding the key to two thousand years of history — the lost key to the Sangreal. 
You can feel the souls of all the knights burned at the stake to protect her secret. Would you have 
them die in vain? No, you will vindicate them. You will join the ranks of the great men you 
admire — Da Vinci, Botticelli, Newton — each of whom would have been honored to be in your 
shoes right now. The contents of the keystone are crying out to us. Longing to be set free. The time 
has come. Destiny has led us to this moment." 

"I cannot help you, Leigh. I have no idea how to open this. I only saw Newton's tomb for a 
moment. And even if I knew the password..." Langdon paused, realizing he had said too much. 

"You would not tell me?" Teabing sighed. "I am disappointed and surprised, Robert, that you do 
not appreciate the extent to which you are in my debt. My task would have been far simpler had 
Remy and I eliminated you both when you walked into Chateau Villette. Instead I risked 
everything to take the nobler course." 

"This is noble?" Langdon demanded, eyeing the gun. 

"Sauniere's fault," Teabing said. "He and his senechaux lied to Silas. Otherwise, I would have 
obtained the keystone without complication. How was I to imagine the Grand Master would go to 
such ends to deceive me and bequeath the keystone to an estranged granddaughter?" Teabing 
looked at Sophie with disdain. "Someone so unqualified to hold this knowledge that she required a 
symbologist baby-sitter." Teabing glanced back at Langdon. "Fortunately, Robert, your 
involvement turned out to be my saving grace. Rather than the keystone remaining locked in the 
depository bank forever, you extracted it and walked into my home." 

Where else would I run? Langdon thought. The community of Grail historians is small, and 
Teabing and I have a history together. 

Teabing now looked smug. "When I learned Sauniere left you a dying message, I had a pretty good 
idea you were holding valuable Priory information. Whether it was the keystone itself, or 
information on where to find it, I was not sure. But with the police on your heels, I had a sneaking 



suspicion you might arrive on my doorstep." 

Langdon glared. "And if we had not?" 

"I was formulating a plan to extend you a helping hand. One way or another, the keystone was 
coming to Chateau Villette. The fact that you delivered it into my waiting hands only serves as 
proof that my cause is just." 

"What!" Langdon was appalled. 

"Silas was supposed to break in and steal the keystone from you in Chateau Villette — thus 
removing you from the equation without hurting you, and exonerating me from any suspicion of 
complicity. However, when I saw the intricacy of Sauniere's codes, I decided to include you both in 
my quest a bit longer. I could have Silas steal the keystone later, once I knew enough to carry on 
alone." 

"The Temple Church," Sophie said, her tone awash with betrayal. 



Light begins to dawn, Teabing thought. The Temple Church was the perfect location to steal the 
keystone from Robert and Sophie, and its apparent relevance to the poem made it a plausible 
decoy. Remy's orders had been clear — stay out of sight while Silas recovers the keystone. 
Unfortunately, Langdon's threat to smash the keystone on the chapel floor had caused Remy to 
panic. If only Remy had not revealed himself, Teabing thought ruefully, recalling his own mock 
kidnapping. Remy was the sole link to me, and he showed his face! 

Fortunately, Silas remained unaware of Teabing's true identity and was easily fooled into taking 
him from the church and then watching naively as Remy pretended to tie their hostage in the back 
of the limousine. With the soundproof divider raised, Teabing was able to phone Silas in the front 
seat, use the fake French accent of the Teacher, and direct Silas to go straight to Opus Dei. A 
simple anonymous tip to the police was all it would take to remove Silas from the picture. 

One loose end tied up. 

The other loose end was harder. Remy. 

Teabing struggled deeply with the decision, but in the end Remy had proven himself a liability. 
Every Grail quest requires sacrifice. The cleanest solution had been staring Teabing in the face 
from the limousine's wet bar — a flask, some cognac, and a can of peanuts. The powder at the 
bottom of the can would be more than enough to trigger Remy's deadly allergy. When Remy 
parked the limo on Horse Guards Parade, Teabing climbed out of the back, walked to the side 
passenger door, and sat in the front next to Remy. Minutes later, Teabing got out of the car, 



climbed into the rear again, cleaned up the evidence, and finally emerged to carry out the final 
phase of his mission. 

Westminster Abbey had been a short walk, and although Teabing's leg braces, crutches, and gun 
had set off the metal detector, the rent-a-cops never knew what to do. Do we ask him to remove his 
braces and crawl through? Do we frisk his deformed body? Teabing presented the flustered guards 
a far easier solution — an embossed card identifying him as Knight of the Realm. The poor fellows 
practically tripped over one another ushering him in. 

Now, eyeing the bewildered Langdon and Neveu, Teabing resisted the urge to reveal how he had 
brilliantly implicated Opus Dei in the plot that would soon bring about the demise of the entire 
Church. That would have to wait. Right now there was work to do. 

"Mes amis, " Teabing declared in flawless French, "vous ne trouvezpas le Saint-Graal, c'est le 
Saint-Graal qui vous trouve. " He smiled. "Our paths together could not be more clear. The Grail 
has found us." 

Silence. 

He spoke to them in a whisper now. "Listen. Can you hear it? The Grail is speaking to us across the 
centuries. She is begging to be saved from the Priory's folly. I implore you both to recognize this 
opportunity. There could not possibly be three more capable people assembled at this moment to 
break the final code and open the cryptex." Teabing paused, his eyes alight. "We need to swear an 
oath together. A pledge of faith to one another. A knight's allegiance to uncover the truth and make 
it known." 

Sophie stared deep into Teabing's eyes and spoke in a steely tone. "I will never swear an oath with 
my grandfather's murderer. Except an oath that I will see you go to prison." 

Teabing's heart turned grave, then resolute. "I am sorry you feel that way, mademoiselle." He 
turned and aimed the gun at Langdon. "And you, Robert? Are you with me, or against me?"