Like a ghost, Silas drifted silently behind his target. Sophie Neveu sensed him too late. Before she 
could turn, Silas pressed the gun barrel into her spine and wrapped a powerful arm across her chest, 
pulling her back against his hulking body. She yelled in surprise. Teabing and Langdon both turned 
now, their expressions astonished and fearful. 

"What...?" Teabing choked out. "What did you do to Remy!" 

"Your only concern," Silas said calmly, "is that I leave here with the keystone." This recovery 
mission, as Remy had described it, was to be clean and simple: Enter the church, take the keystone, 
and walk out; no killing, no struggle. 

Holding Sophie firm, Silas dropped his hand from her chest, down to her waist, slipping it inside 
her deep sweater pockets, searching. He could smell the soft fragrance of her hair through his own 
alcohol-laced breath. "Where is it?" he whispered. The keystone was in her sweater pocket earlier. 
So where is it now? 

"It's over here," Langdon's deep voice resonated from across the room. 

Silas turned to see Langdon holding the black cryptex before him, waving it back and forth like a 
matador tempting a dumb animal. 

"Set it down," Silas demanded. 

"Let Sophie and Leigh leave the church," Langdon replied. "You and I can settle this." 



Silas pushed Sophie away from him and aimed the gun at Langdon, moving toward him. 

"Not a step closer," Langdon said. "Not until they leave the building." 

"You are in no position to make demands." 

"I disagree." Langdon raised the cryptex high over his head. "I will not hesitate to smash this on the 
floor and break the vial inside." 

Although Silas sneered outwardly at the threat, he felt a flash of fear. This was unexpected. He 
aimed the gun at Langdon's head and kept his voice as steady as his hand. "You would never break 
the keystone. You want to find the Grail as much as I do." 



You're wrong. You want it much more. You've proven you're willing to kill for it." 



Forty feet away, peering out from the annex pews near the archway, Remy Legaludec felt a rising 
alarm. The maneuver had not gone as planned, and even from here, he could see Silas was 
uncertain how to handle the situation. At the Teacher's orders, Remy had forbidden Silas to fire his 
gun. 

"Let them go," Langdon again demanded, holding the cryptex high over his head and staring into 
Silas's gun. 

The monk's red eyes filled with anger and frustration, and Remy tightened with fear that Silas 
might actually shoot Langdon while he was holding the cryptex. The cryptex cannot fall! 

The cryptex was to be Remy's ticket to freedom and wealth. A little over a year ago, he was simply 
a fifty-five-year-old manservant living within the walls of Chateau Villette, catering to the whims 
of the insufferable cripple Sir Leigh Teabing. Then he was approached with an extraordinary 
proposition. Remy's association with Sir Leigh Teabing — the preeminent Grail historian on 
earth — was going to bring Remy everything he had ever dreamed of in life. Since then, every 
moment he had spent inside Chateau Villette had been leading him to this very instant. 

/ am so close, Remy told himself, gazing into the sanctuary of the Temple Church and the keystone 
in Robert Langdon's hand. If Langdon dropped it, all would be lost. 

Am I willing to show my face? It was something the Teacher had strictly forbidden. Remy was the 
only one who knew the Teacher's identity. 

"Are you certain you want Silas to carry out this task?" Remy had asked the Teacher less than half 



an hour ago, upon getting orders to steal the keystone. "I myself am capable." 

The Teacher was resolute. "Silas served us well with the four Priory members. He will recover the 
keystone. You must remain anonymous. If others see you, they will need to be eliminated, and there 
has been enough killing already. Do not reveal your face." 

My face will change, Remy thought. With what you've promised to pay me, I will become an 
entirely new man. Surgery could even change his fingerprints, the Teacher had told him. Soon he 
would be free — another unrecognizable, beautiful face soaking up the sun on the beach. 
"Understood," Remy said. "I will assist Silas from the shadows." 

"For your own knowledge, Remy," the Teacher had told him, "the tomb in question is not in the 
Temple Church. So have no fear. They are looking in the wrong place." 

Remy was stunned. "And you know where the tomb is?" 

"Of course. Later, I will tell you. For the moment, you must act quickly. If the others figure out the 
true location of the tomb and leave the church before you take the cryptex, we could lose the Grail 
forever." 

Remy didn't give a damn about the Grail, except that the Teacher refused to pay him until it was 
found. Remy felt giddy every time he thought of the money he soon would have. One third of 
twenty million euro. Plenty to disappear forever. Remy had pictured the beach towns on the Cote 
d'Azur, where he planned to live out his days basking in the sun and letting others serve him for a 
change. 

Now, however, here in the Temple Church, with Langdon threatening to break the keystone, 
Remy's future was at risk. Unable to bear the thought of coming this close only to lose it all, Remy 
made the decision to take bold action. The gun in his hand was a concealable, small-caliber, J- 
frame Medusa, but it would be plenty deadly at close range. 

Stepping from the shadows, Remy marched into the circular chamber and aimed the gun directly at 
Teabing's head. "Old man, I've been waiting a long time to do this." 



Sir Leigh Teabing's heart practically stalled to see Remy aiming a gun at him. What is he doing! 
Teabing recognized the tiny Medusa revolver as his own, the one he kept locked in the limousine 
glove box for safety. 

"Remy?" Teabing sputtered in shock. "What is going on?" 

Langdon and Sophie looked equally dumbstruck. 



Remy circled behind Teabing and rammed the pistol barrel into his back, high and on the left, 
directly behind his heart. 

Teabing felt his muscles seize with terror. "Remy, I don't — " 

"I'll make it simple," Remy snapped, eyeing Langdon over Teabing's shoulder. "Set down the 
keystone, or I pull the trigger." 

Langdon seemed momentarily paralyzed. "The keystone is worthless to you," he stammered. "You 
cannot possibly open it." 

"Arrogant fools," Remy sneered. "Have you not noticed that I have been listening tonight as you 
discussed these poems? Everything I heard, I have shared with others. Others who know more than 
you. You are not even looking in the right place. The tomb you seek is in another location 
entirely!" 

Teabing felt panicked. What is he saying! 

"Why do you want the Grail?" Langdon demanded. "To destroy it? Before the End of Days?" 

Remy called to the monk. "Silas, take the keystone from Mr. Langdon." 

As the monk advanced, Langdon stepped back, raising the keystone high, looking fully prepared to 
hurl it at the floor. 

"I would rather break it," Langdon said, "than see it in the wrong hands." 

Teabing now felt a wave of horror. He could see his life's work evaporating before his eyes. All his 
dreams about to be shattered. 

"Robert, no!" Teabing exclaimed. "Don't! That's the Grail you're holding! Remy would never shoot 
me. We've known each other for ten — " 

Remy aimed at the ceiling and fired the Medusa. The blast was enormous for such a small weapon, 
the gunshot echoing like thunder inside the stone chamber. 

Everyone froze. 

"I am not playing games," Remy said. "The next one is in his back. Hand the keystone to Silas." 

Langdon reluctantly held out the cryptex. Silas stepped forward and took it, his red eyes gleaming 
with the self-satisfaction of vengeance. Slipping the keystone in the pocket of his robe, Silas 
backed off, still holding Langdon and Sophie at gunpoint. 



Teabing felt Remy's arm clamp hard around his neck as the servant began backing out of the 
building, dragging Teabing with him, the gun still pressed in his back. 

"Let him go," Langdon demanded. 

"We're taking Mr. Teabing for a drive," Remy said, still backing up. "If you call the police, he will 
die. If you do anything to interfere, he will die. Is that clear?" 

"Take me," Langdon demanded, his voice cracking with emotion. "Let Leigh go." 

Remy laughed. "I don't think so. He and I have such a nice history. Besides, he still might prove 
useful." 

Silas was backing up now, keeping Langdon and Sophie at gunpoint as Remy pulled Leigh toward 
the exit, his crutches dragging behind him. 

Sophie's voice was unwavering. "Who are you working for?" 

The question brought a smirk to the departing Remy's face. "You would be surprised, 
Mademoiselle Neveu."