The Hawker is on final approach. 

Simon Edwards — Executive Services Officer at Biggin Hill Airport — paced the control tower, 
squinting nervously at the rain-drenched runway. He never appreciated being awoken early on a 
Saturday morning, but it was particularly distasteful that he had been called in to oversee the arrest 
of one of his most lucrative clients. Sir Leigh Teabing paid Biggin Hill not only for a private 
hangar but a "per landing fee" for his frequent arrivals and departures. Usually, the airfield had 
advance warning of his schedule and was able to follow a strict protocol for his arrival. Teabing 
liked things just so. The custom-built Jaguar stretch limousine that he kept in his hangar was to be 



fully gassed, polished, and the day's London Times laid out on the back seat. A customs official 
was to be waiting for the plane at the hangar to expedite the mandatory documentation and luggage 
check. Occasionally, customs agents accepted large tips from Teabing in exchange for turning a 
blind eye to the transport of harmless organics — mostly luxury foods — French escargots, a 
particularly ripe unprocessed Roquefort, certain fruits. Many customs laws were absurd, anyway, 
and if Biggin Hill didn't accommodate its clients, certainly competing airfields would. Teabing was 
provided with what he wanted here at Biggin Hill, and the employees reaped the benefits. 

Edwards's nerves felt frayed now as he watched the jet coming in. He wondered if Teabing's 
penchant for spreading the wealth had gotten him in trouble somehow; the French authorities 
seemed very intent on containing him. Edwards had not yet been told what the charges were, but 
they were obviously serious. At the French authorities' request, Kent police had ordered the Biggin 
Hill air traffic controller to radio the Hawker's pilot and order him directly to the terminal rather 
than to the client's hangar. The pilot had agreed, apparently believing the far-fetched story of a gas 
leak. 

Though the British police did not generally carry weapons, the gravity of the situation had brought 
out an armed response team. Now, eight policemen with handguns stood just inside the terminal 
building, awaiting the moment when the plane's engines powered down. The instant this happened, 
a runway attendant would place safety wedges under the tires so the plane could no longer move. 
Then the police would step into view and hold the occupants at bay until the French police arrived 
to handle the situation. 

The Hawker was low in the sky now, skimming the treetops to their right. Simon Edwards went 
downstairs to watch the landing from tarmac level. The Kent police were poised, just out of sight, 
and the maintenance man waited with his wedges. Out on the runway, the Hawker's nose tipped up, 
and the tires touched down in a puff of smoke. The plane settled in for deceleration, streaking from 
right to left in front of the terminal, its white hull glistening in the wet weather. But rather than 
braking and turning into the terminal, the jet coasted calmly past the access lane and continued on 
toward Teabing's hangar in the distance. 

All the police spun and stared at Edwards. "I thought you said the pilot agreed to come to the 
terminal ! " 

Edwards was bewildered. "He did!" 

Seconds later, Edwards found himself wedged in a police car racing across the tarmac toward the 
distant hangar. The convoy of police was still a good five hundred yards away as Teabing's Hawker 
taxied calmly into the private hangar and disappeared. When the cars finally arrived and skidded to 
a stop outside the gaping hangar door, the police poured out, guns drawn. 

Edwards jumped out too. 



The noise was deafening. 

The Hawker's engines were still roaring as the jet finished its usual rotation inside the hangar, 
positioning itself nose-out in preparation for later departure. As the plane completed its 180-degree 
turn and rolled toward the front of the hangar, Edwards could see the pilot's face, which 
understandably looked surprised and fearful to see the barricade of police cars. 

The pilot brought the plane to a final stop, and powered down the engines. The police streamed in, 
taking up positions around the jet. Edwards joined the Kent chief inspector, who moved warily 
toward the hatch. After several seconds, the fuselage door popped open. 

Leigh Teabing appeared in the doorway as the plane's electronic stairs smoothly dropped down. As 
he gazed out at the sea of weapons aimed at him, he propped himself on his crutches and scratched 
his head. "Simon, did I win the policemen's lottery while I was away?" He sounded more 
bewildered than concerned. 

Simon Edwards stepped forward, swallowing the frog in his throat. "Good morning, sir. I apologize 
for the confusion. We've had a gas leak and your pilot said he was coming to the terminal." 

"Yes, yes, well, I told him to come here instead. I'm late for an appointment. I pay for this hangar, 
and this rubbish about avoiding a gas leak sounded overcautious." 

"I'm afraid your arrival has taken us a bit off guard, sir." 

"I know. I'm off my schedule, I am. Between you and me, the new medication gives me the tinkles. 
Thought I'd come over for a tune-up." 

The policemen all exchanged looks. Edwards winced. "Very good, sir." 

"Sir," the Kent chief inspector said, stepping forward. "I need to ask you to stay onboard for 
another half hour or so." 

Teabing looked unamused as he hobbled down the stairs. "I'm afraid that is impossible. I have a 
medical appointment." He reached the tarmac. "I cannot afford to miss it." 

The chief inspector repositioned himself to block Teabing's progress away from the plane. "I am 
here at the orders of the French Judicial Police. They claim you are transporting fugitives from the 
law on this plane." 

Teabing stared at the chief inspector a long moment, and then burst out laughing. "Is this one of 
those hidden camera programs? Jolly good!" 

The chief inspector never flinched. "This is serious, sir. The French police claim you also may have 



a hostage onboard." 

Teabing's manservant Remy appeared in the doorway at the top of the stairs. "I feel like a hostage 
working for Sir Leigh, but he assures me I am free to go." Remy checked his watch. "Master, we 
really are running late." He nodded toward the Jaguar stretch limousine in the far corner of the 
hangar. The enormous automobile was ebony with smoked glass and whitewall tires. "I'll bring the 
car." Remy started down the stairs. 

"I'm afraid we cannot let you leave," the chief inspector said. "Please return to your aircraft. Both 
of you. Representatives from the French police will be landing shortly." 

Teabing looked now toward Simon Edwards. "Simon, for heaven's sake, this is ridiculous! We 
don't have anyone else on board. Just the usual — Remy, our pilot, and myself. Perhaps you could 
act as an intermediary? Go have a look onboard, and verify that the plane is empty." 

Edwards knew he was trapped. "Yes, sir. I can have a look." 

"The devil you will!" the Kent chief inspector declared, apparently knowing enough about 
executive airfields to suspect Simon Edwards might well lie about the plane's occupants in an effort 
to keep Teabing's business at Biggin Hill. "I will look myself." 

Teabing shook his head. "No you won't, Inspector. This is private property and until you have a 
search warrant, you will stay off my plane. I am offering you a reasonable option here. Mr. 
Edwards can perform the inspection." 

"No deal." 

Teabing's demeanor turned frosty. "Inspector, I'm afraid I don't have time to indulge in your games. 
I'm late, and I'm leaving. If it is that important to you to stop me, you'll just have to shoot me." 
With that, Teabing and Remy walked around the chief inspector and headed across the hangar 
toward the parked limousine. 



The Kent chief inspector felt only distaste for Leigh Teabing as the man hobbled around him in 
defiance. Men of privilege always felt like they were above the law. 

They are not. The chief inspector turned and aimed at Teabing's back. "Stop! I will fire!" 

"Go ahead," Teabing said without breaking stride or glancing back. "My lawyers will fricassee 
your testicles for breakfast. And if you dare board my plane without a warrant, your spleen will 
follow." 



No stranger to power plays, the chief inspector was unimpressed. Technically, Teabing was correct 
and the police needed a warrant to board his jet, but because the flight had originated in France, 
and because the powerful Bezu Fache had given his authority, the Kent chief inspector felt certain 
his career would be far better served by finding out what it was on this plane that Teabing seemed 
so intent on hiding. 

"Stop them," the inspector ordered. "I'm searching the plane." 

His men raced over, guns leveled, and physically blocked Teabing and his servant from reaching 
the limousine. 

Now Teabing turned. "Inspector, this is your last warning. Do not even think of boarding that 
plane. You will regret it." 

Ignoring the threat, the chief inspector gripped his sidearm and marched up the plane's gangway. 
Arriving at the hatch, he peered inside. After a moment, he stepped into the cabin. What the devil? 

With the exception of the frightened-looking pilot in the cockpit, the aircraft was empty. Entirely 
devoid of human life. Quickly checking the bathroom, the chairs, and the luggage areas, the 
inspector found no traces of anyone hiding... much less multiple individuals. 

What the hell was Bezu Fache thinking? It seemed Leigh Teabing had been telling the truth. 

The Kent chief inspector stood alone in the deserted cabin and swallowed hard. Shit. His face 
flushed, he stepped back onto the gangway, gazing across the hangar at Leigh Teabing and his 
servant, who were now under gunpoint near the limousine. "Let them go," the inspector ordered. 
"We received a bad tip." 

Teabing's eyes were menacing even across the hangar. "You can expect a call from my lawyers. 
And for future reference, the French police cannot be trusted. " 

With that, Teabing's manservant opened the door at the rear of the stretch limousine and helped his 
crippled master into the back seat. Then the servant walked the length of the car, climbed in behind 
the wheel, and gunned the engine. Policemen scattered as the Jaguar peeled out of the hangar. 



"Well played, my good man," Teabing chimed from the rear seat as the limousine accelerated out 
of the airport. He turned his eyes now to the dimly lit front recesses of the spacious interior. 
"Everyone comfy?" 

Langdon gave a weak nod. He and Sophie were still crouched on the floor beside the bound and 
gagged albino. 



Moments earlier, as the Hawker taxied into the deserted hangar, Remy had popped the hatch as the 
plane jolted to a stop halfway through its turn. With the police closing in fast, Langdon and Sophie 
dragged the monk down the gangway to ground level and out of sight behind the limousine. Then 
the jet engines had roared again, rotating the plane and completing its turn as the police cars came 
skidding into the hangar. 

Now, as the limousine raced toward Kent, Langdon and Sophie clambered toward the rear of the 
limo's long interior, leaving the monk bound on the floor. They settled onto the long seat facing 
Teabing. The Brit gave them both a roguish smile and opened the cabinet on the limo's bar. "Could 
I offer you a drink? Some nibblies? Crisps? Nuts? Seltzer?" 

Sophie and Langdon both shook their heads. 

Teabing grinned and closed the bar. "So then, about this knight's tomb..."