Langdon felt utterly spent as he and Sophie hurdled a turnstile at the Temple tube station and 
dashed deep into the grimy labyrinth of tunnels and platforms. The guilt ripped through him. 

/ involved Leigh, and now he's in enormous danger. 

Remy's involvement had been a shock, and yet it made sense. Whoever was pursuing the Grail had 
recruited someone on the inside. They went to Teabing'sfor the same reason I did. Throughout 
history, those who held knowledge of the Grail had always been magnets for thieves and scholars 
alike. The fact that Teabing had been a target all along should have made Langdon feel less guilty 
about involving him. It did not. We need to find Leigh and help him. Immediately. 

Langdon followed Sophie to the westbound District and Circle Line platform, where she hurried to 
a pay phone to call the police, despite Remy's warning to the contrary. Langdon sat on a grungy 
bench nearby, feeling remorseful. 

"The best way to help Leigh," Sophie reiterated as she dialed, "is to involve the London authorities 
immediately. Trust me." 

Langdon had not initially agreed with this idea, but as they had hatched their plan, Sophie's logic 
began to make sense. Teabing was safe at the moment. Even if Remy and the others knew where 
the knight's tomb was located, they still might need Teabing's help deciphering the orb reference. 
What worried Langdon was what would happen after the Grail map had been found. Leigh will 



become a huge liability. 

If Langdon were to have any chance of helping Leigh, or of ever seeing the keystone again, it was 
essential that he find the tomb first. Unfortunately, Remy has a big head start. 

Slowing Remy down had become Sophie's task. 

Finding the right tomb had become Langdon's. 

Sophie would make Remy and Silas fugitives of the London police, forcing them into hiding or, 
better yet, catching them. Langdon's plan was less certain — to take the tube to nearby King's 
College, which was renowned for its electronic theological database. The ultimate research tool, 
Langdon had heard. Instant answers to any religious historical question. He wondered what the 
database would have to say about "a knight a Pope interred." 

He stood up and paced, wishing the train would hurry. 



At the pay phone, Sophie's call finally connected to the London police. 

"Snow Hill Division," the dispatcher said. "How may I direct your call?" 

"I'm reporting a kidnapping." Sophie knew to be concise. 

"Name please?" 

Sophie paused. "Agent Sophie Neveu with the French Judicial Police." 

The title had the desired effect. "Right away, ma'am. Let me get a detective on the line for you." 

As the call went through, Sophie began wondering if the police would even believe her description 
of Teabing's captors. A man in a tuxedo. How much easier to identify could a suspect be? Even if 
Remy changed clothes, he was partnered with an albino monk. Impossible to miss. Moreover, they 
had a hostage and could not take public transportation. She wondered how many Jaguar stretch 
limos there could be in London. 

Sophie's connection to the detective seemed to be taking forever. Come on! She could hear the line 
clicking and buzzing, as if she was being transferred. 

Fifteen seconds passed. 

Finally a man came on the line. "Agent Neveu?" 



Stunned, Sophie registered the gruff tone immediately. 

"Agent Neveu," Bezu Fache demanded. "Where the hell are you?" 

Sophie was speechless. Captain Fache had apparently requested the London police dispatcher alert 
him if Sophie called in. 

"Listen," Fache said, speaking to her in terse French. "I made a terrible mistake tonight. Robert 
Langdon is innocent. All charges against him have been dropped. Even so, both of you are in 
danger. You need to come in." 

Sophie's jaw fell slack. She had no idea how to respond. Fache was not a man who apologized for 
anything. 

"You did not tell me," Fache continued, "that Jacques Sauniere was your grandfather. I fully intend 
to overlook your insubordination last night on account of the emotional stress you must be under. 
At the moment, however, you and Langdon need to go to the nearest London police headquarters 
for refuge." 

He knows I'm in London? What else does Fache know? Sophie heard what sounded like drilling or 
machinery in the background. She also heard an odd clicking on the line. "Are you tracing this call, 
Captain?" 

Fache's voice was firm now. "You and I need to cooperate, Agent Neveu. We both have a lot to 
lose here. This is damage control. I made errors in judgment last night, and if those errors result in 
the deaths of an American professor and a DCPJ cryptologist, my career will be over. I've been 
trying to pull you back into safety for the last several hours." 

A warm wind was now pushing through the station as a train approached with a low rumble. 
Sophie had every intention of being on it. Langdon apparently had the same idea; he was gathering 
himself together and moving toward her now. 

"The man you want is Remy Legaludec," Sophie said. "He is Teabing's servant. He just kidnapped 
Teabing inside the Temple Church and — " 

"Agent Neveu!" Fache bellowed as the train thundered into the station. "This is not something to 
discuss on an open line. You and Langdon will come in now. For your own well-being! That is a 
direct order!" 

Sophie hung up and dashed with Langdon onto the train.