Langdon could scarcely believe his own supposition, and yet, considering who had given this stone 
cylinder to them, how he had given it to them, and now, the inlaid Rose on the container, Langdon 
could formulate only one conclusion. 

/ am holding the Priory keystone. 

The legend was specific. 

The keystone is an encoded stone that lies beneath the sign of the Rose. 

"Robert?" Sophie was watching him. "What's going on?" 

Langdon needed a moment to gather his thoughts. "Did your grandfather ever speak to you of 
something called la clef de voiite?" 

"The key to the vault?" Sophie translated. 

"No, that's the literal translation. Clef de voiite is a common architectural term. Voiite refers not to a 
bank vault, but to a vault in an archway. Like a vaulted ceiling." 

"But vaulted ceilings don't have keys." 

"Actually they do. Every stone archway requires a central, wedge-shaped stone at the top which 
locks the pieces together and carries all the weight. This stone is, in an architectural sense, the key 
to the vault. In English we call it a keystone. " Langdon watched her eyes for any spark of 
recognition. 

Sophie shrugged, glancing down at the cryptex. "But this obviously is not a keystone." 

Langdon didn't know where to begin. Keystones as a masonry technique for building stone 
archways had been one of the best-kept secrets of the early Masonic brotherhood. The Royal Arch 
Degree. Architecture. Keystones. It was all interconnected. The secret knowledge of how to use a 
wedged keystone to build a vaulted archway was part of the wisdom that had made the Masons 
such wealthy craftsmen, and it was a secret they guarded carefully. Keystones had always had a 
tradition of secrecy. And yet, the stone cylinder in the rosewood box was obviously something 
quite different. The Priory keystone — if this was indeed what they were holding — was not at all 
what Langdon had imagined. 

"The Priory keystone is not my specialty," Langdon admitted. "My interest in the Holy Grail is 
primarily symbologic, so I tend to ignore the plethora of lore regarding how to actually find it." 

Sophie's eyebrows arched. "Find the Holy Grail?" 



Langdon gave an uneasy nod, speaking his next words carefully. "Sophie, according to Priory lore, 
the keystone is an encoded map... a map that reveals the hiding place of the Holy Grail." 

Sophie's face went blank. "And you think this is it?" 

Langdon didn't know what to say. Even to him it sounded unbelievable, and yet the keystone was 
the only logical conclusion he could muster. An encrypted stone, hidden beneath the sign of the 
Rose. 

The idea that the cryptex had been designed by Leonardo da Vinci — former Grand Master of the 
Priory of Sion — shone as another tantalizing indicator that this was indeed the Priory keystone. A 
former Grand Master's blueprint... brought to life centuries later by another Priory member. The 
bond was too palpable to dismiss. 

For the last decade, historians had been searching for the keystone in French churches. Grail 
seekers, familiar with the Priory's history of cryptic double-talk, had concluded la clef de voute was 
a literal keystone — an architectural wedge — an engraved, encrypted stone, inserted into a vaulted 
archway in a church. Beneath the sign of the Rose. In architecture, there was no shortage of roses. 
Rose windows. Rosette reliefs. And, of course, an abundance of cinquefoils — the five-petaled 
decorative flowers often found at the top of archways, directly over the keystone. The hiding place 
seemed diabolically simple. The map to the Holy Grail was incorporated high in an archway of 
some forgotten church, mocking the blind churchgoers who wandered beneath it. 

"This cryptex can't bo, the keystone," Sophie argued. "It's not old enough. I'm certain my 
grandfather made this. It can't be part of any ancient Grail legend." 

"Actually," Langdon replied, feeling a tingle of excitement ripple through him, "the keystone is 
believed to have been created by the Priory sometime in the past couple of decades." 

Sophie's eyes flashed disbelief. "But if this cryptex reveals the hiding place of the Holy Grail, why 
would my grandfather give it to me ? I have no idea how to open it or what to do with it. I don't 
even know what the Holy Grail is!" 

Langdon realized to his surprise that she was right. He had not yet had a chance to explain to 
Sophie the true nature of the Holy Grail. That story would have to wait. At the moment, they were 
focused on the keystone. 

If that is indeed what this is.... 

Against the hum of the bulletproof wheels beneath them, Langdon quickly explained to Sophie 
everything he had heard about the keystone. Allegedly, for centuries, the Priory's biggest 
secret — the location of the Holy Grail — was never written down. For security's sake, it was 



verbally transferred to each new rising senechal at a clandestine ceremony. However, at some point 
during the last century, whisperings began to surface that the Priory policy had changed. Perhaps it 
was on account of new electronic eavesdropping capabilities, but the Priory vowed never again 
even to speak the location of the sacred hiding place. 

"But then how could they pass on the secret?" Sophie asked. 

"That's where the keystone comes in," Langdon explained. "When one of the top four members 
died, the remaining three would choose from the lower echelons the next candidate to ascend as 
senechal. Rather than telling the new senechal where the Grail was hidden, they gave him a test 
through which he could prove he was worthy." 

Sophie looked unsettled by this, and Langdon suddenly recalled her mentioning how her 
grandfather used to make treasure hunts for her — preuves de merite. Admittedly, the keystone was 
a similar concept. Then again, tests like this were extremely common in secret societies. The best 
known was the Masons', wherein members ascended to higher degrees by proving they could keep 
a secret and by performing rituals and various tests of merit over many years. The tasks became 
progressively harder until they culminated in a successful candidate's induction as thirty-second- 
degree Mason. 

"So the keystone is apreuve de merite, " Sophie said. "If a rising Priory senechal can open it, he 
proves himself worthy of the information it holds." 

Langdon nodded. "I forgot you'd had experience with this sort of thing." 

"Not only with my grandfather. In cryptology, that's called a 'self-authorizing language.' That is, if 
you're smart enough to read it, you're permitted to know what is being said. " 

Langdon hesitated a moment. "Sophie, you realize that if this is indeed the keystone, your 
grandfather's access to it implies he was exceptionally powerful within the Priory of Sion. He 
would have to have been one of the highest four members." 

Sophie sighed. "He was powerful in a secret society. I'm certain of it. I can only assume it was the 
Priory. " 

Langdon did a double take. "You knew he was in a secret society?" 

"I saw some things I wasn't supposed to see ten years ago. We haven't spoken since." She paused. 
"My grandfather was not only a ranking top member of the group... I believe he was the top 
member." 

Langdon could not believe what she had just said. "Grand Master? But... there's no way you could 
know that!" 



"I'd rather not talk about it." Sophie looked away, her expression as determined as it was pained. 

Langdon sat in stunned silence. Jacques Sauniere? Grand Master? Despite the astonishing 
repercussions if it were true, Langdon had the eerie sensation it almost made perfect sense. After 
all, previous Priory Grand Masters had also been distinguished public figures with artistic souls. 
Proof of that fact had been uncovered years ago in Paris's Bibliotheque Nationale in papers that 
became known as Les Dossiers Secrets. 

Every Priory historian and Grail buff had read the Dossiers. Cataloged under Number 4° lm 1 249, 
the Dossiers Secrets had been authenticated by many specialists and incontrovertibly confirmed 
what historians had suspected for a long time: Priory Grand Masters included Leonardo da Vinci, 
Botticelli, Sir Isaac Newton, Victor Hugo, and, more recently, Jean Cocteau, the famous Parisian 
artist. 

Why not Jacques Sauniere ? 

Langdon's incredulity intensified with the realization that he had been slated to meet Sauniere 
tonight. The Priory Grand Master called a meeting with me. Why? To make artistic small talk? It 
suddenly seemed unlikely. After all, if Langdon's instincts were correct, the Grand Master of the 
Priory of Sion had just transferred the brotherhood's legendary keystone to his granddaughter and 
simultaneously commanded her to find Robert Langdon. 

Inconceivable! 

Langdon's imagination could conjure no set of circumstances that would explain Sauniere's 
behavior. Even if Sauniere feared his own death, there were three senechaux who also possessed 
the secret and therefore guaranteed the Priory's security. Why would Sauniere take such an 
enormous risk giving his granddaughter the keystone, especially when the two of them didn't get 
along? And why involve Langdon... a total stranger? 

Apiece of this puzzle is missing, Langdon thought. 

The answers were apparently going to have to wait. The sound of the slowing engine caused them 
both to look up. Gravel crunched beneath the tires. Why is he pulling over already? Langdon 
wondered. Vernet had told them he would take them well outside the city to safety. The truck 
decelerated to a crawl and made its way over unexpectedly rough terrain. Sophie shot Langdon an 
uneasy look, hastily closing the cryptex box and latching it. Langdon slipped his jacket back on. 

When the truck came to a stop, the engine remained idling as the locks on the rear doors began to 
turn. When the doors swung open, Langdon was surprised to see they were parked in a wooded 
area, well off the road. Vernet stepped into view, a strained look in his eye. In his hand, he held a 
pistol. 



'I'm sorry about this," he said. "I really have no choice.