Langdon couldn't tear his eyes from the glowing purple text scrawled across the parquet floor. 
Jacques Sauniere's final communication seemed as unlikely a departing message as any Langdon 
could imagine. 



The message read: 



13-3-2-21-1-1-8-5 

O, Draconian devil ! 

Oh, lame saint! 



Although Langdon had not the slightest idea what it meant, he did understand Fache's instinct that 
the pentacle had something to do with devil worship. 

O, Draconian devil! 

Sauniere had left a literal reference to the devil. Equally as bizarre was the series of numbers. "Part 
of it looks like a numeric cipher. " 

"Yes," Fache said. "Our cryptographers are already working on it. We believe these numbers may 
be the key to who killed him. Maybe a telephone exchange or some kind of social identification. 
Do the numbers have any symbolic meaning to you?" 

Langdon looked again at the digits, sensing it would take him hours to extract any symbolic 
meaning. If Sauniere had even intended any. To Langdon, the numbers looked totally random. He 
was accustomed to symbolic progressions that made some semblance of sense, but everything 
here — the pentacle, the text, the numbers — seemed disparate at the most fundamental level. 

"You alleged earlier," Fache said, "that Sauniere's actions here were all in an effort to send some 
sort of message... goddess worship or something in that vein? How does this message fit in?" 



Langdon knew the question was rhetorical. This bizarre communique obviously did not fit 
Langdon's scenario of goddess worship at all. 

O, Draconian devil? Oh, lame saint? 

Fache said, "This text appears to be an accusation of some sort. Wouldn't you agree?" 

Langdon tried to imagine the curator's final minutes trapped alone in the Grand Gallery, knowing 
he was about to die. It seemed logical. "An accusation against his murderer makes sense, I 
suppose." 

"My job, of course, is to put a name to that person. Let me ask you this, Mr. Langdon. To your eye, 
beyond the numbers, what about this message is most strange?" 

Most strange? A dying man had barricaded himself in the gallery, drawn a pentacle on himself, and 
scrawled a mysterious accusation on the floor. What about the scenario wasn't strange? 

"The word 'Draconian'?" he ventured, offering the first thing that came to mind. Langdon was 
fairly certain that a reference to Draco — the ruthless seventh-century B.C. politician — was an 
unlikely dying thought. " 'Draconian devil' seems an odd choice of vocabulary." 

"Draconian?" Fache's tone came with a tinge of impatience now. "Sauniere's choice of vocabulary 
hardly seems the primary issue here." 

Langdon wasn't sure what issue Fache had in mind, but he was starting to suspect that Draco and 
Fache would have gotten along well. 

"Sauniere was a Frenchman," Fache said flatly. "He lived in Paris. And yet he chose to write this 
message..." 

"In English," Langdon said, now realizing the captain's meaning. 

Fache nodded. "Precisement. Any idea why?" 

Langdon knew Sauniere spoke impeccable English, and yet the reason he had chosen English as 
the language in which to write his final words escaped Langdon. He shrugged. 

Fache motioned back to the pentacle on Sauniere's abdomen. "Nothing to do with devil worship? 
Are you still certain?" 

Langdon was certain of nothing anymore. "The symbology and text don't seem to coincide. I'm 
sorry I can't be of more help." 



"Perhaps this will clarify." Fache backed away from the body and raised the black light again, 
letting the beam spread out in a wider angle. "And now?" 

To Langdon's amazement, a rudimentary circle glowed around the curator's body. Sauniere had 
apparently lay down and swung the pen around himself in several long arcs, essentially inscribing 
himself inside a circle. 

In a flash, the meaning became clear. 

"The Vitruvian Man, " Langdon gasped. Sauniere had created a life-sized replica of Leonardo da 
Vinci's most famous sketch. 

Considered the most anatomically correct drawing of its day, Da Vinci's The Vitruvian Man had 
become a modern-day icon of culture, appearing on posters, mouse pads, and T-shirts around the 
world. The celebrated sketch consisted of a perfect circle in which was inscribed a nude male... his 
arms and legs outstretched in a naked spread eagle. 

Da Vinci. Langdon felt a shiver of amazement. The clarity of Sauniere's intentions could not be 
denied. In his final moments of life, the curator had stripped off his clothing and arranged his body 
in a clear image of Leonardo da Vinci's Vitruvian Man. 

The circle had been the missing critical element. A feminine symbol of protection, the circle 
around the naked man's body completed Da Vinci's intended message — male and female harmony. 
The question now, though, was why Sauniere would imitate a famous drawing. 

"Mr. Langdon," Fache said, "certainly a man like yourself is aware that Leonardo da Vinci had a 
tendency toward the darker arts." 

Langdon was surprised by Fache's knowledge of Da Vinci, and it certainly went a long way toward 
explaining the captain's suspicions about devil worship. Da Vinci had always been an awkward 
subject for historians, especially in the Christian tradition. Despite the visionary's genius, he was a 
flamboyant homosexual and worshipper of Nature's divine order, both of which placed him in a 
perpetual state of sin against God. Moreover, the artist's eerie eccentricities projected an admittedly 
demonic aura: Da Vinci exhumed corpses to study human anatomy; he kept mysterious journals in 
illegible reverse handwriting; he believed he possessed the alchemic power to turn lead into gold 
and even cheat God by creating an elixir to postpone death; and his inventions included horrific, 
never-before-imagined weapons of war and torture. 

Misunderstanding breeds distrust, Langdon thought. 

Even Da Vinci's enormous output of breathtaking Christian art only furthered the artist's reputation 
for spiritual hypocrisy. Accepting hundreds of lucrative Vatican commissions, Da Vinci painted 
Christian themes not as an expression of his own beliefs but rather as a commercial venture — a 



means of funding a lavish lifestyle. Unfortunately, Da Vinci was a prankster who often amused 
himself by quietly gnawing at the hand that fed him. He incorporated in many of his Christian 
paintings hidden symbolism that was anything but Christian — tributes to his own beliefs and a 
subtle thumbing of his nose at the Church. Langdon had even given a lecture once at the National 
Gallery in London entitled: "The Secret Life of Leonardo: Pagan Symbolism in Christian Art." 

"I understand your concerns," Langdon now said, "but Da Vinci never really practiced any dark 
arts. He was an exceptionally spiritual man, albeit one in constant conflict with the Church." As 
Langdon said this, an odd thought popped into his mind. He glanced down at the message on the 
floor again. O, Draconian devil! Oh, lame saint! 

"Yes?" Fache said. 

Langdon weighed his words carefully. "I was just thinking that Sauniere shared a lot of spiritual 
ideologies with Da Vinci, including a concern over the Church's elimination of the sacred feminine 
from modern religion. Maybe, by imitating a famous Da Vinci drawing, Sauniere was simply 
echoing some of their shared frustrations with the modern Church's demonization of the goddess." 

Fache's eyes hardened. "You think Sauniere is calling the Church a lame saint and a Draconian 
devil?" 

Langdon had to admit it seemed far-fetched, and yet the pentacle seemed to endorse the idea on 
some level. "All I am saying is that Mr. Sauniere dedicated his life to studying the history of the 
goddess, and nothing has done more to erase that history than the Catholic Church. It seems 
reasonable that Sauniere might have chosen to express his disappointment in his final good-bye." 

"Disappointment?" Fache demanded, sounding hostile now. "This message sounds more enraged 
than disappointed, wouldn't you say?" 

Langdon was reaching the end of his patience. "Captain, you asked for my instincts as to what 
Sauniere is trying to say here, and that's what I'm giving you." 

"That this is an indictment of the Church?" Fache's jaw tightened as he spoke through clenched 
teeth. "Mr. Langdon, I have seen a lot of death in my work, and let me tell you something. When a 
man is murdered by another man, I do not believe his final thoughts are to write an obscure 
spiritual statement that no one will understand. I believe he is thinking of one thing only." Fache's 
whispery voice sliced the air. "La vengeance. I believe Sauniere wrote this note to tell us who 
killed him." Langdon stared. "But that makes no sense whatsoever." 

"No?" 

"No," he fired back, tired and frustrated. "You told me Sauniere was attacked in his office by 
someone he had apparently invited in." 



"Yes." 

"So it seems reasonable to conclude that the curator knew his attacker." 

Fache nodded. "Go on." 

"So if Sauniere knew the person who killed him, what kind of indictment is this?" He pointed at the 
floor. "Numeric codes? Lame saints? Draconian devils? Pentacles on his stomach? It's all too 
cryptic." 

Fache frowned as if the idea had never occurred to him. "You have a point." 

"Considering the circumstances," Langdon said, "I would assume that if Sauniere wanted to tell 
you who killed him, he would have written down somebody's name. " 

As Langdon spoke those words, a smug smile crossed Fache's lips for the first time all night. 
"Precisement, " Fache said. "Precisement. " 



I am witnessing the work of a master, mused Lieutenant Collet as he tweaked his audio gear and 
listened to Fache's voice coming through the headphones. The agent superieur knew it was 
moments like these that had lifted the captain to the pinnacle of French law enforcement. 

Fache will do what no one else dares. 

The delicate art of cajoler was a lost skill in modern law enforcement, one that required 
exceptional poise under pressure. Few men possessed the necessary sangfroid for this kind of 
operation, but Fache seemed born for it. His restraint and patience bordered on the robotic. 

Fache's sole emotion this evening seemed to be one of intense resolve, as if this arrest were 
somehow personal to him. Fache's briefing of his agents an hour ago had been unusually succinct 
and assured. / know who murdered Jacques Sauniere, Fache had said. You know what to do. No 
mistakes tonight. 

And so far, no mistakes had been made. 

Collet was not yet privy to the evidence that had cemented Fache's certainty of their suspect's guilt, 
but he knew better than to question the instincts of the Bull. Fache's intuition seemed almost 
supernatural at times. God whispers in his ear, one agent had insisted after a particularly 
impressive display of Fache's sixth sense. Collet had to admit, if there was a God, Bezu Fache 
would be on His A-list. The captain attended mass and confession with zealous regularity — far 
more than the requisite holiday attendance fulfilled by other officials in the name of good public 



relations. When the Pope visited Paris a few years back, Fache had used all his muscle to obtain the 
honor of an audience. A photo of Fache with the Pope now hung in his office. The Papal Bull, the 
agents secretly called it. 

Collet found it ironic that one of Fache's rare popular public stances in recent years had been his 
outspoken reaction to the Catholic pedophilia scandal. These priests should be hanged twice! Fache 
had declared. Once for their crimes against children. And once for shaming the good name of the 
Catholic Church. Collet had the odd sense it was the latter that angered Fache more. 

Turning now to his laptop computer, Collet attended to the other half of his responsibilities here 
tonight — the GPS tracking system. The image onscreen revealed a detailed floor plan of the Denon 
Wing, a structural schematic uploaded from the Louvre Security Office. Letting his eyes trace the 
maze of galleries and hallways, Collet found what he was looking for. 

Deep in the heart of the Grand Gallery blinked a tiny red dot. 

La marque. 

Fache was keeping his prey on a very tight leash tonight. Wisely so. Robert Langdon had proven 
himself one cool customer.