Louvre Museum, Paris 10:46 P.M. 

Renowned curator Jacques Sauniere staggered through the vaulted archway of the museum's Grand 
Gallery. He lunged for the nearest painting he could see, a Caravaggio. Grabbing the gilded frame, 
the seventy- six-year-old man heaved the masterpiece toward himself until it tore from the wall and 
Sauniere collapsed backward in a heap beneath the canvas. 

As he had anticipated, a thundering iron gate fell nearby, barricading the entrance to the suite. The 
parquet floor shook. Far off, an alarm began to ring. 

The curator lay a moment, gasping for breath, taking stock. / am still alive. He crawled out from 
under the canvas and scanned the cavernous space for someplace to hide. 

A voice spoke, chillingly close. "Do not move." 

On his hands and knees, the curator froze, turning his head slowly. 

Only fifteen feet away, outside the sealed gate, the mountainous silhouette of his attacker stared 
through the iron bars. He was broad and tall, with ghost-pale skin and thinning white hair. His 



irises were pink with dark red pupils. The albino drew a pistol from his coat and aimed the barrel 
through the bars, directly at the curator. "You should not have run." His accent was not easy to 
place. "Now tell me where it is." 

"I told you already," the curator stammered, kneeling defenseless on the floor of the gallery. "I 
have no idea what you are talking about!" 

"You are lying." The man stared at him, perfectly immobile except for the glint in his ghostly eyes. 
"You and your brethren possess something that is not yours." 

The curator felt a surge of adrenaline. How could he possibly know this? 

"Tonight the rightful guardians will be restored. Tell me where it is hidden, and you will live." The 
man leveled his gun at the curator's head. "Is it a secret you will die for?" 

Sauniere could not breathe. 

The man tilted his head, peering down the barrel of his gun. 

Sauniere held up his hands in defense. "Wait," he said slowly. "I will tell you what you need to 
know." The curator spoke his next words carefully. The lie he told was one he had rehearsed many 
times... each time praying he would never have to use it. 

When the curator had finished speaking, his assailant smiled smugly. "Yes. This is exactly what the 
others told me." 

Sauniere recoiled. The others? 

"I found them, too," the huge man taunted. "All three of them. They confirmed what you have just 
said." 

It cannot be! The curator's true identity, along with the identities of his three senechaux, was 
almost as sacred as the ancient secret they protected. Sauniere now realized his senechaux, 
following strict procedure, had told the same lie before their own deaths. It was part of the 
protocol. 

The attacker aimed his gun again. "When you are gone, I will be the only one who knows the 
truth." 

The truth. In an instant, the curator grasped the true horror of the situation. If I die, the truth will be 
lost forever. Instinctively, he tried to scramble for cover. 

The gun roared, and the curator felt a searing heat as the bullet lodged in his stomach. He fell 



forward... struggling against the pain. Slowly, Sauniere rolled over and stared back through the 
bars at his attacker. 

The man was now taking dead aim at Sauniere's head. 

Sauniere closed his eyes, his thoughts a swirling tempest of fear and regret. 

The click of an empty chamber echoed through the corridor. 

The curator's eyes flew open. 

The man glanced down at his weapon, looking almost amused. He reached for a second clip, but 
then seemed to reconsider, smirking calmly at Sauniere's gut. "My work here is done." 

The curator looked down and saw the bullet hole in his white linen shirt. It was framed by a small 
circle of blood a few inches below his breastbone. My stomach. Almost cruelly, the bullet had 
missed his heart. As a veteran of la Guerre d'Algerie, the curator had witnessed this horribly drawn- 
out death before. For fifteen minutes, he would survive as his stomach acids seeped into his chest 
cavity, slowly poisoning him from within. 

"Pain is good, monsieur," the man said. 

Then he was gone. 

Alone now, Jacques Sauniere turned his gaze again to the iron gate. He was trapped, and the doors 
could not be reopened for at least twenty minutes. By the time anyone got to him, he would be 
dead. Even so, the fear that now gripped him was a fear far greater than that of his own death. 

/ must pass on the secret. 

Staggering to his feet, he pictured his three murdered brethren. He thought of the generations who 
had come before them... of the mission with which they had all been entrusted. 

An unbroken chain of knowledge. 

Suddenly, now, despite all the precautions... despite all the fail-safes... Jacques Sauniere was the 
only remaining link, the sole guardian of one of the most powerful secrets ever kept. 

Shivering, he pulled himself to his feet. 

/ must find some way.... 

He was trapped inside the Grand Gallery, and there existed only one person on earth to whom he 



could pass the torch. Sauniere gazed up at the walls of his opulent prison. A collection of the 
world's most famous paintings seemed to smile down on him like old friends. 

Wincing in pain, he summoned all of his faculties and strength. The desperate task before him, he 
knew, would require every remaining second of his life.